Hello again so continuing where we left off in this lesson you're going to learn how to create template
pages.
But in a different way you're going to adapt the strategy for both the contact and the About Us pages.
Are you ready.
So let's go.
Let's start by removing this file here page about is that page piece inserts will not be used for us
any longer.
Now let's create another file with a very different structure still within our themes folder.
We're going to save this file and its name is going to be general hyphen template that BHB Let's use
a comment structure that would present other medically identifies as a template page as the name implies.
This file will serve as a template.
The advantage of this template is that it can be used as Vusi.
I start by opening the page with tags inside them.
You want to create a comment
by typing here template name let's call it general template.
That is it will serve any kind of pages I want.
But if you want to give another name to your template go ahead and do that.
Well how will this structure out this general template look like.
Again let's grab a copy of our index that beach B file and space the content with just copy it into
the new template file.
OK.
We can now start excluding the sections and div tags.
We don't want interesting plate
we can't even exclude the bootstrap row since we will have only a single column that will spend the
entire width of the page.
So we don't need column classes aswell.
For now let's add the paragraphs below this article tag.
Now let's go back to the ad men and added some pages for example going to add the About Us page and
here you'll notice something we didn't have before.
On the right side here in the page attributes a few It's called the template appears and as a template
page we have the default template option which is now selected just the branches in this explanation.
What is this default template.
You may ask every time we hear this name defrauds template you have to think of the index dot page profile.
This file is always considered by WordPress as the default state.
Hence its importance whenever WordPress doesn't know how to display content in the front end.
If you use the default thing play that is the index dot pitch B file.
It's a fallback file.
Very important to WordPress seems OK.
Now closing other princes and coming back we can say that this space is going to use a different thing
with page not the default one based on the index.
That page be filed.
If I click here we see that we now have the template we created called general template.
Let's do this and update this page now on the front end below that you see that the page structure is
shown according to the content we have in the general template that is peafowl.
Notice the paragraph you created for reference.
For example.
So let's say the same thing for the contact page.
Let's go back to the dashboard
added the page and inside it.
Let's use again the 10 page page recreated this is the greatest advantage of this strategy.
I just created one file that serves as a template and this template can be used on whatever pages I
want whenever I want.
And of course I can create as many template pages I want.
In fact I want to show you something curious.
Most of the things we download from the Wordpress repository have several templates.
For example you can choose between a template page without the sidebar and other template with a sidebar.
Another one with three columns etc..
This can vary from thing to thing.
Also most of the things that call themselves multi-purpose themes adopt this strategy.
For example this thing here
it's multi-purpose because it allows the site owner to choose between different home page templates.
For example this home page here that we're seeing now
looks different from this shop home page template.
But in fact the inner pages for example the 4 for error page it's always the same.
We can achieve this by creating different template page files to be used on a static home page.
But let's go back to our theme so let's go ahead and update this page here and see how it's shown in
the front end.
Look at is the contact page now has a template which is identical to the About Us page.
That's because they use the same page template code.
The general template as I told you earlier only the structure is the same the content itself is not.
For example each one has a different page title but they are both in the same space.
Same for color font size etc..
Your other pages however follow another logic.
Now that we have our template page up and running lets make it look a little better.
From this loop we'll be removing the publication date the author the categories and tags Sing's pages
don't have these items.
Let's save this file.
So let's add some dummy content inside this pages.
An update again.
OK that's it now.
And the content we add on this page is we will have a similarly odd since they follow the same thing
bleet.
And now finally all of our pages look different.
We have the About Us page and the contact page that follow a template page structure the blog page that
has the post list and follows the default template that is the index dot page be file and the home page
which follows the contents of a file called Page hyphen home that be Marcello.
Could I turn the page home page file into a template file as well yes for sure.
In fact many things do this.
It depends on you.
I can now at least you know how to use all these tools available.
Choose the one you like the best or the one that makes the most sense for your thing and apply it.
In fact you can go ahead and turn your page home that page file into a template file.
But just for the sake as an exercise since will still need that file in the next lesson.
You'll come back talking about another subject.
We're going to learn what a theme support is.
And then happy calling.